---
title: Privacy Policy Paper Notes
tags: Paper
---

The Creation and Analysis of aWebsite Privacy Policy Corpus
-----------------------------------------------------------

Wilson et al. create a corpus of 115 privacy policy. They developed a policy secheme with ten data practice (First Party Collection/Use, Third Party Sharing/Collection, User Choice/Control, User Access, Edit, & Deletion, Data Retention, Data Security, Policy Change, Do Not Track, International & Specific Audiences, Other) formulated by domain experts. For a data practice, it will have many attributes. For example, for the data practice User Choice/Control, it have Choice Type, Choice Scope, Personal Information Type, Purpose and one optional attribute (User Type). Then skilled annotators used annotation tool which developed by authors to select data practice and its attributes. Besides that, they analysis the distribution of data practice and use logistic regression, SVM and HMM to predict privacy policy's structure. They split 'Other' into three categories(Introductory/Generic, Practice Not Covered, and Privacy Contact Information). If two or more annotators agreed that a segment have a category, then they labeled that segment with that category.They used a 12 length binary vector to represent a segment. For the *i* th element, 1 represent this segment have the *i* th data practice. Otherwise it is 0. The result shows that the SVM model have the best effect.

Towards Automatic Classification of Privacy Policy Text
-------------------------------------------------------

Based on Wilson et al.'s work, Liu et al. used Logistc Regression, SVM and CNN model to classify the privacy policy on segments and sentence level. In a similar way, they split 'Other' into three categories(Introductory/Generic, Practice Not Covered, and Privacy Contact Information). If two or more annotators agreed that a segment or a sentence have a category, then they labeled that segment with that category.They used a 12 length binary vector to represent a segment or a sentence. Similarly, For the *i th element, 1 represent this segment or sentence have the *i* th data practice. The best results show micro-F1 scores of 0.78 and 0.66 for segment and sentence classification.

A comprehensive keyword analysis of online privacy policies
-----------------------------------------------------------

Kaur et al. They collected privacy policies from different domain and countries.
They fist used 2000 policies that were collected by Massey, Eisenstein, Antón, and Swire (2013).  Then they collected 600 policies covering 11 different application domains from Alexa. They also collected financial and e-commerce related privacy policies from USA, Canada and Europe(German and UK). They define some sections(Collection, Sharing, Choice, Access, Data retention, Data security, Policy change, Do not track, Purpose) according to the FTC and OECD FIP practices as well as recent work of Guntamukkala et al. (2015) and Wilson et al. (2016). They first use Tokenization, Stop word removal and Stemming to pre-process these privacy policy. They fed into LDA with keywords annotated by Guntamukkala et al. (2015) and Wilson et al. (2016) for LDA to extract more keywords for each section. They also studied the use of ambiguous words in privacy policies. This list is taken from Guntamukkala et al. (2015) and Reidenberg, Bhatia, Breaux, and Norton (2016). They analyzed coverage of sections in 2000 privacy policies, USA, Canada and UK, different domain. They calculated the word frequency of ambiguous words in the 2000 privacy policy. The five most commonly used words were *may*, *certain*, *for example*, *except*, and *like*. the top three ambiguous words in USA, Canada, UK and German policies are *may* , *will*, and *can*. The top 5 ambiguous words in 11 different domains are *may*, *share*, *certain*, *like*, and *for example*. 

Then they analyze data protection regulation about UK, Canada, USA, Germany and different domains. For example, the UK restricts the retention of data, but few privacy policies mention relevant keywords. The UK does not recommend collecting *email*, *name*, and *addresss* information, but there are many privacy policies that mention these keywords. PIPEDA requires confirmation from the user before collecting user data. So Canada's privacy policy uses a lot of *consent* keywords. In addition, Canada uses a lot of *update* and *delete* keywords. This shows that users have the right to access their data. Compared with other countries, the *security* keyword is also the most used in the privacy policy of Canada. The emphasis is on data transparency. Therefore, the keyword *retention*, *retain* appears very frequently, but the frequency of *delete* and *update* is not high. Germany's privacy policy does not use the keywords *phone*, *share*, *retain*, *disclose* and *password*. The keywords *delete*, *access*, *email*, *update*, *retention*, and *notice* are rarely used. This may have a lot to do with the relevant German laws.

In healthcare domain, privacy often uses *name*, *age*, *address*. Most health care collects personal information. The *security policy numbers* and s*ocial security numbers*. However, the frequency of these keywords is not very high. In shopping domain, privacy policy often uses *payment* , *information*, *site analytics*, and *behavioral* *Tracking* these keywords, keywords like *name*, *email*, *address*, and *contact information* such as *phone number*, *mobile*, *location* are frequently used in e-commerce policies. In kids domain, privacy policy rarely collects *security*, *SSL*, *safeguard*, and *socket Layer* these keywords.

The above results are only part of the results of their analysis. This paper analyzes the privacy policies of different countries and different countries in detail, which can be used as a reference when writing privacy policies.

Analyzing Vocabulary Intersections of Expert Annotations and Topic Models for Data Practices in Privacy Policies
------------------------------------------------------------------------

In this paper, the author uses NMF to generate a topic of privacy policy, assuming that the topic model generated using the unsupervised method has a one to one mapping relationship with the categories proposed by legal experts in Wilson et al. They use the Logistic Regression model to extract the keywords for each data practice. After that, they use NMF to generate the topic, and corresponding to each topic, the corresponding keywords can be generated. Each category and topic can then be represented by the extracted keywords. They analyzed the relationship between topic and category by analyzing the Jaccard Similarity of topic and category keywords. Their results indicate a meaningful mapping between the topic model and the expert-defined categories. Unfortunately, there is no One to One mapping, mostly One to Many, Many to One or Many to May.

